As the tactics of threat actors evolve, so
do the roles of security professionals.
Having a solid understanding of core
security concepts will support your growth
in this field.
One way to better understand
these core concepts is by
organizing them into categories,
called security domains.
As of 2022, CISSP has defined eight domains
to organize the work of
security professionals.
It's important to understand that these
domains are related and that gaps in one
domain can result in negative
consequences to an entire organization.
It's also important to understand
the domains because it may help
you better understand your career goals
and your role within an organization.
As you learn more about
the elements of each domain,
the work involved in one may appeal
to you more than the others.
This domain may become a career path for
you to explore further.
CISSP defines eight domains in total, and
we'll discuss all eight between
this video and the next.
In this video, we're going to
cover the first four:
security and risk management,
asset security,
security architecture and engineering,
and communication and network security.
Let's start with the first domain,
security and risk management.
Security and risk management focuses on
defining security goals and objectives,
risk mitigation, compliance,
business continuity, and the law.
For example, security analysts may
need to update company policies
related to private health information
if a change is made to a federal
compliance regulation such as
the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, also known as HIPAA.
The second domain is asset security.
This domain focuses on securing
digital and physical assets.
It's also related to the storage,
maintenance, retention, and
destruction of data.
When working with this domain,
security analysts may be tasked with
making sure that old equipment
is properly disposed of and
destroyed, including any type
of confidential information.
The third domain is security
architecture and engineering.
This domain focuses on optimizing data
security by ensuring effective tools,
systems, and processes are in place.
As a security analyst, you may be
tasked with configuring a firewall.
A firewall is a device used to monitor and
filter incoming and
outgoing computer network traffic.
Setting up a firewall correctly helps
prevent attacks that could affect
productivity.
The fourth security domain is
communication and network security.
This domain focuses on managing and
securing physical networks and
wireless communications.
As a security analyst,
you may be asked to analyze user
behavior within your organization.
Imagine discovering that users are
connecting to unsecured wireless hotspots.
This could leave the organization and
its employees vulnerable to attacks.
To ensure communications are secure,
you would create a network policy to
prevent and mitigate exposure.
Maintaining an organization's
security is a team effort, and
there are many moving parts.
As an entry-level analyst, you will
continue to develop your skills
by learning how to mitigate risks
to keep people and data safe.
You don't need to be an expert in all
domains. But, having a basic understanding
of them will aid you in your
journey as a security professional.
You're doing great! We have just
introduced the first four security
domains, and
in the next video, we'll discuss four more!
See you soon!